---
title: Il Lion du Belfort
date: '2016-06-20T00:00:00-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/146344835407/il-lion-du-belfort
---

June 20—Day 3: Col des 7 Chemins to Belfort

I left the shelter around 10:00 and the trail started with a climb. Past
that it was good walking again on forest roads, and I was enjoying
myself. The road passed through a logging camp, and so chips and pieces
of wood were strewn all around. Big tracks had pressed into the mud and
I walked in the middle. All around were full and half cords of woods
piled up alongside the path.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/46b27fe02b21b4e7bbe9bc4ed8c5f15c/tumblr_inline_o9duxh3rRy1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

At an intersection, the GR5 turned down a stream bed. It took me a
minute to even find the marker, and then I wasn't sure if I was seeing
things right. But, sure enough, a second blaze confirmed that the trail
was indeed walking though a stream. It was the first test of how
waterproof my shoes really were, and I'm happy to report that my feet
stayed dry. I did make a diversion at one point, though, where the water
would've rolled over the shoes at my ankles and down to my feet.

The stream eventually broke off downhill while the trail kept on. It
came to a T, but I didn't see a blaze giving direction. I walked a
little each way and found the next marker to the left, so I laid out
some sticks on the ground saying as much for the next person and
continued on.

I was walking out of the Vosges and the trail was descending all day.
Then, just like that, I was out, and the trail turned into a paved road
to walk into town. It being a Monday, stores were closed. Stores and
restaurants in France tend to take long weekends. Walking in pavement
wasn't near as much fun as walking in the woods: pavement is harder on
your feet, the path is in open sunlight, and things tend to be flat. At
least the towns in France are pleasant to look at, with gardens and
flowers in each colorful-shuttered, stone home's yard. French villes
tend to all have a fountain in the central square, often beside a
Souvenir du France, i.e., a WWII memorial.

I walked through one town (Étueffont) and passed into another
(Anjoutey). The trail was headed though some woods for a third and I
thought I'd take a break. I had lunch and was catching up on my journal
when an older man driving a small (European small) van came by. The van
looked worn out and carried landscaping equipment. I did my best to
answer his French, but I'm still learning; he was asking about where I
was headed, I think. He went on and I returned to my writing.

An hour or so later, he came through again, having completed whatever
work he'd set out to do before. Seeing me still there, he swung the van
around and opened the door. We managed to figure out how to get to where
I was headed for the day, and he motioned me to get in. Well, sure, why
not?

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/9e6ba75dec1829eaa5c5c273a7ca51d1/tumblr_inline_o9duuhzCWk1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

Bernhard, it turns out, owns (or maybe just manages) that part of the
forest. He's 78 years old and seemed to be doing just fine. He kept
talking, even though I only caught every few words. He asked about my
trip and where I was from, then told me about every path through the
forest, pointing out where they started and ended as we drove past. He
drove me right to Belfort, only 10 minutes or so but saving me hours.
With a wave, he drove off.

Now, Belfort is a larger town in eastern France and not actually on the
GR5. It happens to be the home of Joseph and Evelyne, who'd offered to
host me for a night. I was certainly happy to see them again. Joseph
took me into the city to see the fort/castle and its famous Lion of
Belfort, a massive stone sculpture by Frédéric Bartholdi, the same
architect who designed the Statue of Liberty. Evelyne prepared an
incredible dinner, served as separate courses of radish and carrot-leaf
soup (from their garden), a local sausage (like a squat kielbasa) with
lentils and the rest of the carrot, salad, bread and a local cheese,
strawberries and a thick yogurt, and finally coffee and chocolate. I'd
brought a bottle red wine as a thank you, and we talked late into the
evening. Here were people I known less than two full days, and already
were were good friends.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/70afc48ccc4a61aa616812e0d11ea2b9/tumblr_inline_o9dv3tFmVL1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

Santé!

