---
title: Rock Climbing on Le Brévent
date: '2016-07-24T06:17:53-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/147888330202/rock-climbing-on-le-brévent
---

July 9—Day 22: Chalets d'Anterne

I woke early again, catching a view across the valley of morning light
climbing up the other side. The sight of the valley in the morning was
just as beautiful as the night before. My side was still cast in shadow
and quite cold, and when I made my way back onto the trail I was wearing
a few layers of my warmer clothes.

The sole objective for the day was to climb Le Brévent, described by the
guidebook as "a huge mountain [that] holds snow well into the
summer…[but] there is no finer stance for admiring Mount Blanc." The
guidebook's plan for the previous day finished at Refuge du Moëde
Anterne, but I'd already gone on from there to reach my campsite. Even
with that lead, there was still some 1300m more to climb.

The trail started off fine, built from packed dirt and rocks, and using
stepping stones to ford a lot of runoff waterfalls rolling down the
mountain from the snow above. It soon turned rocky, and the trail was
marked by cairns in addition to the usual painted blaze. Even then it
was vague at times, and more than once I had to find my own way. It was
good weather, fortunately; the guidebook advises caution if the weather
is poor.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/d184ee0236cf3ea570d93d16fc2fb653/tumblr_inline_oaprimhH5n1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

The climbing got steeper, to the point where I had to set aside the
trekking poles and put hands on rocks a few times. As I got closer to
the col, the rocks gave way to snow. Snow is tiring to walk through, but
actually easier to cross over since it's more level than the rocky
climbs. That said, snow isn't so trustworthy, and I had a short fall at
one point, crossing n angled patch of snow between two chunks of more
solid ground, when my foot sunk in and then slid to the side. No harm
done, but I didn't much enjoy it.

I crossed a few more sections of alternating snow and rock to reach the
col, which was totally snow covered. The view to Mont Blanc was perfect.
Even saw a few paragliders floating past, arcing to and fro around the
mountain range.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/b447206cad56f3db6b4b3beac959e93c/tumblr_inline_oaprjjypbv1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

Mission accomplished! Sort of. The col was short of the summit, and the
trail actually kept climbing a little ways more to reach it. There were
loads of people and even a small restaurant at the top: there's a tram
that takes you straight up, and a different path to the summit is
included in the route for the Tour du Mont Blanc, a very popular 10-day
hike. The GR5 and TMB share trails for the next few days, and while it's
nice to see people on the trail, these hikers don't have quite the same
mindset as the people walking the GR5, and the path was actually pretty
crowded on the descent.

Which was a really long descent, in the end, and the temperature rose as
the trail fell. I was still in my cold weather gear, but this side of
the mountain was in full sun and didn't really have any waterfalls, so
it was a long and hot descent down into the valley to reach Les Houches.
Altitude has a way bigger impact on temperature than I'd thought; it was
some 15°C (25°F) warmer in town than at the summit. I had run out of
water, so when I finally reached the town hours later I was totally
parched and went straight to the fountain for a drink.

Spent the night in town at a small campground; really just a grass lot,
but at least it had hot showers and a place to charge my devices. The
Scots were staying there as well and we had dinner together, just some
random things from what we were carrying. They're really nice people. In
the evening the sunset lit up the mountain peaks, briefly painting them
orange.

