---
title: Riders of the Storm
date: '2016-07-02T05:12:52-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/146793020337/riders-of-the-storm
---

June 24—Day 7: Fessevillers

Another hot day, but I was now heading into the Doubs river valley where
there was much easier walking as compared with the ascents I had done in
the Vosges.

I made an easy (though steep) descent into Goumois to start the day,
about an hour and a half's walk. The town sits right on the river Doubs,
which serves as the border between France and Switzerland. I walked into
town about noon and stopped at a restaurant for a coffee. I've yet to
find the classic "French cafe" that you might imagine; this place at
least had outdoor seating. I ordered "un café" and some bread for a
snack. The place was empty but for me and one other couple who seemed to
be making a trip by motorcycle. Perhaps Goumois is a popular spot for
motorcycling: a sign on the restaurant wall read "welcome
motorcyclists." There's a bridge in the center of the town that crosses
the river and enters Switzerland, and I could see across from my seat. I
ended up staying at the restaurant a couple hours, catching up on my
journal and waiting out the heat of the day. I was in no hurry to pack
up and they didn't seem to mind my staying since the place was so quiet.

I left in the afternoon and stopped a few kilometers on at a picnic area
beside the river. I'd washed in the water the day before, but it was so
hot I figured another dip in the Doubs couldn't hurt. I grabbed my towel
and stepped in, slowly at first, then forcing myself to drop into the
chilling water. Only went under once this time; once was enough! I
refilled my drinking water as well, using my filter to fill my reservoir
and bottle.

After a snack and waiting for my things to dry I set off again. The path
along the river wasn't muddy (surprising), but was at times full of
rocks that made for slippery walking. The ground was covered in moss,
ivy, and ferns; the trees wore thick green cloaks and were strung
together by hanging vines. It was like walking through an enchanted
forest in a fantasy book.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/902d3490e461e63e321ee00f38226b3c/tumblr_inline_o9egxvWXbx1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

The path continued on this way, rocky but level, following the river all
day long: sometimes on ridges above, sometimes on small paths just
beside. At one point the river rushed into a short waterfall, only some
2m high but loud as a constant thunder. A turn in the path and the roar
faded to silence, giving way to the steady sounding of my footsteps
against the earth and to the singsong of birds.

The rocks, big and white like marble, made for slow walking, requiring
an attentive eye for each step. When I came across a large shelter
around 19:00 I decided to stop there. With an early night I could get an
early start, finally getting on schedule to walk in the mornings instead
of the afternoon and evening. The abri was built from the foundation of
an old charcoal-maker's camp and had stone walls and a covered back.
There was a cave-like room below, wet and cold and dark. I set up my
sleeping bag on the back table under a roof and started collecting wood
to build a fire since there was a ring just there.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/a3a98abc638a629b73b5dcd7ff4aefdf/tumblr_inline_o9ok4fcRQM1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

Before I could get the fire going, though, a group of four friends drove
in from a road I hadn't seen. They were staying at a place in town and
just using the shelter for an evening barbecue. They'd brought wine, rum
and pineapple juice, cured pork sausage with nuts, steaks, chicken
kebabs with tomatoes and lemon, carrot salad, pasta salad, tabbouleh,
bread… It seemed an entire feast, and they invited me to join. My Uncle
Ben's rice would live another day.

We made a fire with charcoal in the grill and let it heat up. They said
there was a good, short hike nearby (which happened to be a part of the
GR5) so I put my boots back on and the five of us marched down a long
ways to the river's edge where there was a rapids and the ruins of an
old mill. "The Doubs is very cold," one of them tells me, though I'd
already learned that. A fog was coming off the water; it was a very
beautiful spot in the half light of the setting sun.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/07a69e4255241070e6aa319160fef184/tumblr_inline_o9ok66R6kV1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

Back at the shelter we ate our full by candlelight, and they gave me
some leftovers for the next day. We moved the embers from the grill to
the pit and had a few beers around a campfire after dark. Thunder
sounded in the distance and the group headed out around midnight to beat
the rain. I stayed awake at the shelter, under a covered tin roof and
watching the fire, until a big storm rolled through. It was definitely
the right call to stop early: the rain came hard and lasted through the
night, falling loudly against the roof. If I wasn't in a shelter I would
have been in trouble. It wasn't the early night I'd planned, but still
another good night on the trail.

Oh, and apparently Britain left the EU. So there's that.

