---
title: Motivation
date: '2016-08-11T10:37:49-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/148789496868/motivation
---

July 30—Day 43: St. Saveur du Tinée to St. Dalmas

This is my seventh week on the trail, and the final few days of the
trek. After so long a ways, I'm certainly ready to be done. Especially
because the trails here are a bit less interesting without the dramatic
mountains of before, and it feels a bit like I just have to get through
these parts compared to the excitement of some of the earlier hikes. At
the same time, I know I'll miss being out in the mountains like I have
been these many weeks. And New York is going to be a huge change.

Yves and I went to the bakery for breakfast early in the morning, each
having a small coffee and a brioche raisin (a spiral croissant with egg
and raisins). I had a Niçoise dessert as well, a powdered sugar and
nutmeg spiced square that was pretty good. The French have food pretty
well figured out.

Yves went ahead, then I left a little while later. Walked steadily and
easily over wide paths and roads all day, always climbing. Hot again,
and by now I was dunking my head in every fountain I passed. You can't
believe how good it feels.

I caught up with Yves again a few hours later in the afternoon at a
restaurant in St. Dalmas. It's just a small town, but it serves as the
forking point between the GR5 and the GR52 (and a few other trails), so
there were quite a few hikers and cyclists passing through. Yves and I
chatted for a bit, then he left to finish his final few days while I
stayed behind in town for lunch. I had a small picnic in the courtyard
of an old Roman church and set up my clothesline to dry a few things
that had gotten wet from the night's humidity. Inside the church there
was an old crypt that had glass panels in the floor so that you could
see down into the graves, skeletons and artifacts laying there
underneath the rows of chairs. After eating, I sat outside for a long
while—too long, actually, so that I eventually lost my motivation to
leave town. It took a lot of mental effort to pack things up again, and
pull the pack back on.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/6cef72b8da49cb67cb7fbebd66e37889/tumblr_inline_obooq9cZmL1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

I walked to the store to get a few last things since the 52 doesn't pass
through any towns for several days. Just by the entrance I ran into
Mika, the Finnish hiker I'd met a week or so earlier on the trail. He
was planning to take a few rest days at the campsite in town. I was
happy enough to have an excuse to not hike, so we sat and had beer while
he waited for the one restaurant to open for a pizza.

About 6:30PM I figured I'd better get going. If I stayed for dinner it
would be too dark to go any further, and I didn't want to spend the
night in town. So Mika and I shook hands, and then I left the GR5 for
the last time, turning onto the GR52 toward Menton. Well, toward the
north and Lake Geneva actually: the GR52 makes a big arc back up through
the Mercantour before landing down at the sea.

I hiked a couple hours out of town, making my way through a small but
pleasant bit of forest and halfway up to the next col, setting up camp
in an open grassy field a little after 8PM. First solo camp in a few
days, and I enjoyed the solitude again. Though some mosquitos kept me
from enjoying it too much. Burned my soup.

I watched the stars for awhile through the screen of my tent. Only four
days left.

