---
title: Guarded by a Sheepdog
date: '2016-08-10T13:31:19-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/148747084116/guarded-by-a-sheepdog
---

July 28—Day 41: St. Étienne du Tinée to Col de Crusette

After a good breakfast (coffee, crème fraîche, muesli), I left the
pleasant little town of St. Étienne du Tinée behind, walking again with
Patrice and Dominique.

The day started with a massive climb out of the valley, 600m straight up
to the ski-resort town of Auron. It was miserable climbing, no views and
endless, steep zigzags. Even after weeks of hiking in the Alps, this was
a tough climb. Can't imagine doing it in the heat of the day. In town I
went to the store to resupply and walked out with plenty of food, and a
few ice cream bars for a treat.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/96a6fb0ac7df108f0232e0538ff2ee8a/tumblr_inline_oboolkIPwk1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

Patrice and Dominique went ahead on the trail and I walked alone to meet
them at Roya, climbing over a few mountain bike paths out of Auron and
then passing through more open fields. There were lots of old stone
farmhouses, some falling apart entirely. In Roya we shared a very
refreshing beer together, then they went on ahead again while I stayed
behind to figure out how to spend the final days of the trip: Dominique
had given me some suggestions about Bretagne and the Côte d'Azur. I
stayed in Roya a couple hours more, having a second beer and generally
taking it easy.

The trail leaving Roya was really nice, a good climb through forest
alongside a river, then crossing a footbridge over the water to the
other side where it was more grassy and bouldery. Good views back toward
the few buildings that made up the town. One part of the trail was very
rocky, and box-like boulders with sharp corners sometimes jabbed at your
feet. But the real trouble was that there wasn't a water source for a
long ways, so I had to carry a bit more than usual. Water is heavy. But
it was good hiking.

I made my way toward Col du Crousette, but I'd left Roya too late to
make it all the way past the col to where there would be a place to
camp. Near the last stretch of the climb I passed a French woman going
the other direction and she recognized me as "the American boy." Patrice
and Dominique must've said something; they were probably well past the
col by now. Speaking quickly in French, she said there was a tiny water
source ahead and then a spot to camp just before the col, where there
was another guy. She said a bunch of other things as well but apparently
didn't notice that it was all way too fast for me to comprehend. I
nodded and smiled, catching one word out of every dozen. Anyway, I'd
already planned to camp just ahead. I found the water source (not much
more than I trickle!) and soon saw the tent of the "garçon" she'd
mentioned.

I figured I'd ask if the guy wanted to camp together for the night, and
so I met Vincent, a French hiker from Nice who had just started his
trek. I made a big pot of pasta with red pesto sauce for the two of us,
abruptly deciding that I'd been carrying it too long and that the best
thing to do was to make it all right then. Vincent made some tea and
shared some spice bread, and we had a good time figuring out one
another's broken English and French. (Ironically, he works at a school
that teaches French to exchange students). Salut Vincent!

After we'd already set up our tents, a shepherd and his flock came
across the mountainside and slowly made their way down into the grassy
area we'd set ourselves up in. For a while we were surrounded by a bunch
of sheep and goats, and all you could hear was their bells and baaing,
goats munching on grass and sheep stumbling into one another. We weren't
sure if we'd have to move or what—that depended largely on the whim of
the shepherd. At least four dogs came by us as well, guiding the troupe
and checking that we weren't any danger.

Eventually all the animals passed us, the shepherd waved at Vincent and
then penned the flock up by his cabin about 500m on. One of the bigger
dogs stayed behind, lounging between our tents and keeping an eye on us
I suppose.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/4bea2428d94ab4f8db65d52b2acaec3e/tumblr_inline_obookgLRYl1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

I no longer dream of being a shepherd.

