---
title: The Gear List
date: '2016-06-12T18:16:53-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/145825215722/the-gear-list
---

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/baf2812a936e39e78aadc4893e95b65d/tumblr_inline_o8omdhLJEr1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

No trekking blog is complete without a gear list, and I'm not about to
break with tradition. As the most tangible aspect of the planning that
goes into a trip, it's easy to spend a good while building the list and
selecting exactly which items to bring. Some parts of the list stay
rather static, such as the pack, tent, and sleeping system ("the big
three"). Other sections see lots of change in the days leading up to the
trip and require more thought.

The final list is very personal: trusted gear has earned its place and
is like a close friend won through hard experience. New items have to be
evaluated, compared to alternatives, and ultimately judged on the
balance of utility, weight, and cost. One is always reviewing their
inventory, evolving their list as they gain experience and as gear wears
out. Packing for a trek is a task that affords plenty of challenge, with
the reward of a more enjoyable hike.

## My Packing List for the GR5
![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/674964cdfd2fbfd07203f0e6bf7cc46e/tumblr_inline_o8oh8fPswZ1uncvcw_1280.png)

I organized my list into eight sections: hiking, camping, cooking,
clothing, personal / hygiene, first aid, electronics, and miscellaneous.
These groupings line up pretty well with how I organize my pack. My
target carry weight is 14kg (about 30 pounds), with food and water.
Writing out each item with its weight helped me keep the list under
control and serves as a final packing list.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/7e1e71c0115d74189acf2ea44253ef72/tumblr_inline_o8ohd8gSvc1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

The sections of the GR5 that I'll be walking are mountainous, so I need
to carry gear for all conditions. For bad-weather gear I have a wool
beanie, gloves, rain jacket, down jacket, two long sleeve shirts, and
one pair of long underwear. We'll see whether I wish I'd brought rain
paints. For day-to-day hiking I have two lightweight, collared trekking
shirts, hiking pants, running shorts, three pairs of wool socks and
three pairs of athletic briefs.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/511dcf1b110c2a3f2ae4c06f79999dd6/tumblr_inline_o8oh7rFHN61uncvcw_1280.jpg)

Everything I'm bringing is in the photo above. Going roughly clockwise,
I have: my pack and pack cover, water reservoir and filter, clothesline,
trekking poles, tent poles, tent (green bag), sleeping bag (blue bag),
sleeping pad (bright green bag), sleeping bag liner (small blue bag), a
couple dried meals, cooking pot with multi-tool, stove, cleaning towel,
toiletries, first-aid kit and ibuprofen ("Vitamin I"), camera, batteries
and chargers (left of camera), e-reader, cables, phone, headphones,
guidebook, passport and rail pass, headlamp, watch, belt, hiking clothes
for first day, the first hat I've ever liked, hiking boots, wool hat,
down jacket, clothing (red bag), and rain jacket.

That should be enough for fifty days, I think.

