---
title: Hugo and Manuel
date: '2016-07-10T17:06:17-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/147204125237/hugo-and-manuel
---

June 39—Day 12: Malbuisson

I woke up in the morning feeling much better than the days before.
Catherine had a simple breakfast ready, of bread and jams and coffee. A
nice change from the handfuls of granola or muesli I have on the trail.

I packed up my things and off we went, stopping at a Carrefour (grocery
store) for a few items: cheese and prosciutto tortellini, some more
cereal bars, an apple, and a few other things. She drive me into
Malbuisson, a day's walk otherwise, driving alongside Lac de
Saint-Point. We stopped beside the La Poste and called Hugo, one of the
guys we'd met the night before. They were nearby, having camped just
outside the town. I hugged and thanked Catherine for everything, then
walked off with Manuel. Merci beaucoup encore, Catherine!

Hugo and Manuel are both 23 and spending the summer hiking before going
back to school. They'd done a sea-to-sea, East to West trek across
Corsica the summer before, walking parts of the GR20, a very popular and
beautiful hike. They spoke English well enough, though I still tried to
practice my French when possible.

It was easy walking to start, with good weather, and we talked most of
the way—about how heavy our packs were, the various gear we'd brought,
what we did for work, and the rest. It was nice having company and the
kilometers seemed to pass a bit faster. The path followed just beside
some railroad tracks into a town, Métabief, and we stopped to have a
snack.

The way out of town was up a ski slope, first on roads, then local
paths, then over grass and tree roots. It was steep, but we kept a good
pace. The morning had been cool, so I was wearing my pants and long
sleeve; now I was sweating from the climb and afternoon sun. It was
about an hour to the summit, passing between grassy slopes and clusters
of trees. Ski slopes open up for mountain biking in the summer, and
there were lots of cyclists out, racing downhill over rocks and
branches, turning through banked curves, free-styling over jumps and
gaps.

When we reached the summit of Le Morond (1419m) we stopped for another
break and to enjoy the view. And what a view it was. You could see all
the way ahead, past Lac Aleman to the Alps, the whole range sitting blue
on the horizon. It was my first view of the Alps after two weeks of
walking, and man were they intimidating, standing as Goliaths over the
lake, peak after peak after peak.

We continued, down a bit from the summit past an artificial lake of
bright crystal blue water and on to the next peak, Mont d'Or. Ahead, the
rugged Alps. Behind, the rural Jura and many valleys and plains beyond.

We kept walking into the evening, still figuring out one another's
schedule and walking habits. The path led through open grass fields,
ready to be grazed by cattle later in the summer, past a farm where some
horses were standing just beside the path, and up into some sparse
woods. About 19:30 we found a decent spot and decided to set up camp.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/62651a2bbcdc35bed6ad16b2ec8e5045/tumblr_inline_o9uihg5tAG1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

Manuel set up a hammock, I made a simple dinner for myself, and Hugo
went to collect wood for a fire. In the States I wouldn't normally make
a fire outside of a designated spot, but this was France, and Hugo is
French, so I figured it was fine. He used a small rope to drag out some
wood and soon had a good campfire going; I was impressed! It seemed like
he had lit just a single twig before the whole thing was going.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/260a85fd6814e67d28a3f16484755744/tumblr_inline_o9uihgROM91uncvcw_1280.jpg)

Though we'd heard there would be rain, the sky was clear for the most
part and we sat around the fire. They made some ramen in a big pot and
shared some pieces of a big cut of smoked ham. Some clouds did roll in
eventually, passing around us at first so that we stayed out a bit
longer. Finally it did start to rain more seriously, and we put the fire
out and headed for our tents.

It had been a great day: good company, an incredible first view of the
Alps, good hiking, and a campfire at sunset to close out the night.

