---
title: The Mercantour
date: '2016-08-12T09:46:02-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/148836235643/the-mercantour
---

July 31â€”Day 44: St. Dalmas to Refuge le Boreon

First morning on the GR52! This variant stays in the mountains longer
and is supposed to be a much better finish than the official GR5 route
into Nice, which quickly runs into suburbs and a large city. I don't
know quite what to expect: the blogs I've read from other GR5 trekkers
all finished at Nice. Of course the guidebook describes most things well
enough.

From my campsite at Plan de la Gourra I skirted along the side of the
mountain, looking over the valley back toward the small towns from
yesterday's walking. It rained for a few minutes when I reached the
first col, Col de Viellos, but better weather soon returned. The
mosquitos were still bad in the morning and I had skipped breakfast. I
stopped to make a coffee and have some bran cereal at a nice lake just
before the last bit of climbing up to Col du Barn.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/68d1ab0d3246b1b4937c43091aa7d124/tumblr_inline_obslppnzqf1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

The col was rocky and there was a strong breeze, so I stopped for the
view only for a minute and then continued on to make the descent. The
way down was steep and winding to start (as always), but before long I
was walking on a nice path past pines and alongside a few river. It was
easy walking, quite relaxing really.

I stopped for lunch at a small cascade. A few hikers passed, but
otherwise the trail was quiet. It was really, really nice. I only had s
few hours more to walk before reaching the refuge, so I stayed beside
the water for awhile. When I finally left, I passed a much bigger
waterfall with a great view just a minute later. Ah well.

The way followed a few other rivers and cascades, still walking easily
through a forest. At one point it turned up to a road and I missed the
sign, so I ended up walking into some marshy parts and trailblazing a
little. But I found the way again before too long. Later the path
changed from packed dirt to chalk-like crushed white stones, cutting
along a forested river basin. It was something new, even for a trail
that's walked on just about every surface imaginable.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/9c6de3b987ca95c044e83e29feda4b54/tumblr_inline_obsmauwJbO1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

The day's walk was easy gong, just a half climb to a col in the morning
and then the rest was a gradual descent or at worst a slight climb. On
trails like this, the mind wanders. I reminisced about the trails I'd
walked, people I'd met, and views of seen. Walking these paths in the
Mercantour felt like revisiting all the experiences that brought me
here. So much happens in each day.

I reached the Refuge le Boreon in the early evening and sat down on the
terrace for drink and view of the mountains around. They're not as
towering anymore. I talked for bit with a group of four female hikers
about my age who'd just finished a weekend trip, answering the usual
questions of "how long?", and "always solo?", and the like. Always fun
to meet people who appreciate the outdoors. And to practice my French of
course. Times like this I wonder how crazy my hair and beard looks after
two months without a haircut. They were only staying for a drink though,
and soon left to head home.

Dinner was served later and I was seated at a table with a Danish woman
named Helle and we got along really well. She's a documentary filmmaker
with lots of interesting stories and experiences, and had a great
perspective on living meaningfully that I appreciated. We talked about
my trek and coming move to NYC, about her films and the company. I don't
know any Danish, but maybe German is close: Hallo Helle!

I'd planned to bivouac just a short way up from the shelter since
refuges are expensive, even more so here in the Mercantour, but a storm
rolled in just a dinner finished. Bright flashes of lightning lit up the
sky, followed by huge thunderclaps. The rain fell in heavy sheets and I
figured it would be foolish to leave. Once you've spent a few hours
comfortably, eaten warm food and kept your things dry, it's pretty much
impossible to trade that for the thought of hiking a half hour uphill,
at night, in the rain. So instead, Helle and I hid outside for a while,
standing under the short eaves of the shelter and watching the rain
clouds move across the mountains. I love watching storms.

We talked for awhile more afterwards, as people slowly drifted up to
bed. I stayed up rather late, until finally I was the only one still
awake. But no worries, a comfy bed was just upstairs.

