---
title: The Grand Traverse of the Alps
date: '2016-05-31T00:00:00-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/145275930877/the-grand-traverse-of-the-alps
---

The GR5 is a long distance footpath that runs from the North Sea at Hoek
van Holland in the Netherlands down to the Mediterranean at Nice in
France. The trail covers some 2.300 kilometers (1.500 miles) and wanders
through Holland, Belgium, and Luxembourg before turning south in France
to climb into the Alps, tracing the borders with Switzerland and Italy.
This final section through the Alps from Lake Geneva down to the
Mediterranean takes about five weeks to complete and is considered among
the greatest long walks in all of Europe.

![](https://f000.backblazeb2.com/file/z4iVknXtd/gr5/route.webp)

In just over two weeks I'll start this trail myself, carrying pack and
person across mountain passes and down into valleys, past rivers, lakes,
and wildlife, through villages, gîtes d'Etape, and open landscape.

I plan to start in Thann, a small commune in France located about two
weeks north of the beginning of the Alps section at Lake Geneva. This
entry point gives me some lead in before reaching the more rugged Alpine
region. I've never attempted a hike of this length before, and to be
honest I'm more determined than I am prepared, so I'm hoping the lead in
will give me some time to settle my nerves and strengthen my step.

Once I'm hiking I plan to wild camp each night, save for the few places
where the trail passes through protected areas and camping is
prohibited. I'm aiming for a pack weight around 14 kilograms (30 pounds)
including food and water, but I'm still putting together my final gear
list so we'll see how things shake out. I'll be walking by myself, or
maybe in the company of other hikers I meet along the way. I don't
really speak French — only what I'm able to learn in these next two
weeks — but I know a bit of Spanish and can throw in some very simple
Italian for good measure.

_Bon voyage, et grande randonnée!_