---
title: Walking Without a Map
date: '2016-07-06T15:02:30-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/147005722478/walking-without-a-map
---

June 26—Day 9: Gran'Combe du Bois

After two days walking along the Doubs, I was ready to be out. I hadn't
passed through any towns or seen many people, just the river and the
trail, rocky and tree-rooted and green and white.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/f9f843a64a5d1319928a9118f5f684a1/tumblr_inline_o9eh8z6hlf1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

I left the cabin early and set out determined to reach the larger town
of Villers-le-Lac, some 20km. I needed to resupply on food and wanted to
spend a night in a gîte to recharge mentally and physically—and to call
home.

[http://youtu.be/W8tt3o5ZVec](http://youtu.be/W8tt3o5ZVec)

I walked quickly, crossing over a few more fallen trees and past a
couple hydro-electric dams of increasing size. The walking was easy,
without many climbs and over good trails.My shoes did get a bit muddy at
one point.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/583d11dcd363efa2802774dbaf300198/tumblr_inline_o9uj22BLkW1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

In the afternoon I stopped at Saut du Doubs, a larger waterfall and
national site in France. It was quite a view since the rain from the
past few days and weeks made the falls even stronger and bigger than
usual. Reminded me of the Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone from my hike
last fall.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/f03aea6a898fa0cad25bf97d4f020dda/tumblr_inline_o9uize8xiD1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

I walked on, hiking out of the Doubs by way of a path carved out if the
cliff side that took me to an access road for the nature reserve. The
roads into Villers-le-Lac were paved, first partially so with gravel and
then hard pavement took over closer to town. After passing beside the
lake, which had a nice view, it was nearly two hours of paved road
walking with only houses and municipal buildings for scenery. I don't
recommend walking into cities.

It was a Sunday, so everything was closed except one bakery. I stopped
in and ordered a coffee and "sable du coco," expecting a chocolate-sided
cookie. When I opened the package I realized "coco" was coconut, not
cocoa. Still quite good. I had a second coffee after the first, and this
time made sure to ask for the cookie with the chocolate side.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/f4fd3421e1f1471f59448f48048e8acd/tumblr_inline_o9uiyfef5m1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

I was able to call home using the cafe's wifi, a needed encouragement.
After more than an hour I finally packed up, headed for a gîte
recommended to me by the barista. It was only a couple kilometers away,
but when I got there I found it locked. Apparently you have to reserve
it in advance; it's not staffed. Just as I went to look at the map on my
phone for other options its battery died: talked too long on the call
home.

Now without a map I was in a spot of trouble. I thought of returning to
the cafe to charge my phone but saw a sign for another gîte, Sur la
Roches, and walked that way. It was just the one sign, and after a few
minutes I didn't know where to go next. As I was walking, an older man
called out to me from the balcony of his home, asking (in French) what
trail I was following. I did my best to explain my walking the GR5, and
asked if he knew the way to Sur la Roches. After a short conversation,
he offered to drive me there. It wasn't far, only 3km or so, but it was
up a mountainside, I didn't have a map, and I would arrive too late for
dinner. I took his offer and we zipped around a few corners up the
mountain to the guesthouse. The man had done some walking of his own
back in the day, but that's about all I was able to understand of his
quick speech. His name was Albini, or something like that; Italian,
though he didn't speak it.

The gîte was empty except for one couple; I suppose it's still early in
the season. The French holidays start in July. Dinner was served in
generous portions, which I was happy with since I hadn't eaten much nor
been able to buy food with the markets being closed. Salad with raisins
and cheese, "Blanchet du veau," bread and cheese (comté and mordeau, the
local specialties), then an egg based desert like flan. It was all very
good and I ate a bit too much. The couple, Jonathan and Emily, were
doing a few hikes in the area. They spoke English and conversation
spanned wide: the history of France, various words' etymologies, about
language, the social and physical sciences, and anywhere else the topics
led. It was good company.

I washed my clothes in the sink and set them on the line to dry. That
night I slept in a warm bed, clean and well fed.

