---
title: Longest Day, Longer Night
date: '2016-08-13T16:03:57-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/148896138728/longest-day-longer-night
---

August 3—Day 47: Refuge de Merveilles to Sospel

Mika and I both woke up early, just before sunrise. It's a good feeling
to wake up so early in the morning. Somehow I wake up earlier and stay
up later when I'm traveling compared to my schedule at home. Don't want
to miss anything, I suppose.

The big mountains were behind us now, and though there were still a few
climbs left before we would reach the sea, the cols would be much
smaller and more gradual. We had a coffee and some muesli, then made
quick work of a climb up to Pas du Diable, leaving the Vallée du
Merveilles. Looking south from the col, the sky sure looked awfully
blue.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/15d73e66cafaed6250e7761e473898fe/tumblr_inline_obopfo01yD1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

The descent from Pas du Diable was tough, but at least I could use my
poles again outside the valley. We walked on through the afternoon,
crossing military bunkers and grassy fields on mostly level tracks. At a
narrow ridge, we had to wait for a flock of sheep to pass. It was a
steep drop to the side and we didn't want to spook the sheep and have
them fall so we had to be patient. The guard dogs watched us closely,
then let us through. Incredible, those dogs.

Stopped at Camp d'Argent for lunch. It was hot so I tried to open the
patio umbrella beside our table–must've turned the crank a bit too far
though, because the rope snapped and the umbrella collapsed. Thankfully,
the owner said it was no problem to repair it. Could've been a costly
accident. The food was good anyway: I had an assiette du berger, some
bread, a few cuts of jambon cru (like prosciutto), pâté, a small salad,
and fromage du chevre.

We'd originally planned to stop just past Camp d'Argent, but the walking
was so light that we'd made it to the restaurant before noon. It was
another four or five hours to Sospel, making for a nearly ten hour day,
but we decided to go for it. When you're this close to the finish, it's
hard to sit on your hands. Anyway, the way into Sospel followed a
mountain ridge so finding camping would've been difficult.

The path criss-crossed the ridge, passing from one side to the other a
few times. On the east side it was covered in a thick cloud, and if I
stopped for a minute Mika would disappear into the fog ahead of me. The
cloud abruptly stopped right at the ridge, so on the west facing side
was clear and hot. Beautiful and strange.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/21d872b69f14f24af04e4ce7ea1cdb2d/tumblr_inline_obopibyOuX1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

After passing several cols along the ridge, the trail descended very
steeply into Sospel. The town was more than 1000m down, and the way down
took more than two hours. The landscape changed several times on the
descent, turning from green and yellow grasses to dry pines, then to
more desert like shrubs and brush. As the path changed from dirt to
dust, you really felt closer than ever to the Mediterranean.

We reached town in time for dinner and stopped in at a small restaurant.
It was a smaller village than I thought, just one main road and a dozen
or so shops. But it's a very old town, being an important stop on
the"rue du sel" (salt route) from centuries past. Colorful but crumbling
and dirty; derelict old homes banked alongside the river, which was
shallow and dry. Behind the main road there was an open plaza and a
large church, empty and quiet. After our dinner we had a coffee in the
main plaza, watching people and vehicles pass by the busy little street.
The day had been the longest ever, some 40km (~30mi), but it was worth
it to be able to rest at a nice cafe bistro after a good dinner.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/7bed4dd8c37191105d783a8787ab0282/tumblr_inline_obsv79EtA51uncvcw_1280.jpg)

There was camping in town, but I'd read online that it was 15€, far too
expensive for a campground in my opinion. Mika didn't care either way.
We checked the map and found a spot that looked promising, so after a
second coffee and a little more relaxing, we finally left town at dark.
A poor choice.

It was a farther walk out of town than we'd guessed, and when we reached
the spot we found that it wasn't nearly as level as the map had made it
out to be. We searched around in the dark for more than an hour and the
best place we found was a large, ugly, gravel lot, overgrown with weeds
and thick grasses all around, plus a few piles of rocks and trash at the
corners. A train passed by a few times overnight, horn blasting and
wheels screeching on the tracks. Somewhere up the mountainside, a dozen
or more dogs barked nonstop. It was ridiculous; a cacophony that carried
on all through the night.

It was the worst camp site I've ever had, and I've had a lot. The
absolute worst.

