---
title: Mont Blanc for Breakfast
date: '2016-07-14T16:04:59-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/147408579131/mont-blanc-for-breakfast
---

July 3—Day 16: Saint Cergue

I woke up early, eager to reach town and catch the first ferry over the
lake. The guys were a bit more casual, so while I waited I sat and had
breakfast with a view to Mont Blanc.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/c3fbf1081a2fdb1d2f33ca58772c4aae/tumblr_inline_o9ujjgJQFE1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

When we set off, it was a beautiful morning, sunny and clear. The path
was steep downhill walking again. All night long we'd heard
motorcyclists riding hard around the curves and switchbacks—now we had
to look out for these daredevils as our straight-as-an-arrow-in-flight
path forced us to cross over the
straight-as-a-line-traced-by-a-seismograph-in-an-earthquake road several
times.

We followed the path to a secondary road that brought us into the quaint
town of Trélex, then past it through some farmland that gradually turned
more urban as we entered Nyon. The town center was one of the most
beautiful place I'd ever seen and felt practically Mediterranean. Stone
buildings with colorful shutters and bright tiled roofs were tucked into
the mountainside while cobblestone paths and alleys wandered past
fountains and gardens; steeples rose up above rooftops, bells chiming on
the half hour, and the sights and senses of maritime living permeated
all. There were high end restaurants, charming old hotels, and all sorts
of boutique shops, and I looked on at couples and families enjoying
shimmering white wine and high class dining in a sunny, stone paved
piazza.

We wandered through town down to the port, where there was a beautiful
view across the lake, to buy our ferry tickets. As it turns out, though,
despite the GR5 navigating through Nyon, the port there doesn't have a
direct connection to the next leg of the trail at Thonon les Baines. The
connecting service in Yvoire didn't operate in Sundays (as you might've
guessed), so we would have to take the train to Lausanne and the ferry
from there. We walked back through Nyon toward the central train
station, following the sound of music to pass La Place des Mariners,
where a band was playing swing music and Elvis covers to a crowd of
people dancing and enjoying the weekend. Roman columns stood in the
background, framing a beautiful view across the water.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/4b09bdb74810234f1c63ab482cf6a450/tumblr_inline_o9ujkjtNl01uncvcw_1280.jpg)

Arriving by train, Lausanne was also beautiful, but we went straight to
the ferry port since the next trip left shortly. The ride across the
lake was magnificent, absolutely gorgeous. The water was calm, softly
rolling waves of royal blue, with bright sailboats coasting idly in the
temperate air.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/1e721921bb10eb06b4fe1b381f3c1072/tumblr_inline_o9ujniK8bc1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

All around were port towns built into green foothills, rising swiftly
into high mountains peaked with snow. What a life it must be to live in
such a place.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/ec55e31c4256e444e5a24e123dc4d061/tumblr_inline_o9ujniKx6P1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

The trip across the water was about an hour and we reached Thonon in the
afternoon. Again, most businesses were closed for the weekend, so our
options for lunch were limited. We stopped at a small spot for kebabs,
the kind where meat is roasted on a big rotating spit and then sliced
thin onto a sandwich. Not French, but it sure hit the spot. One market
was open and we bought a few items to resupply before heading out.

The trail was easy to find, starting at the train station in the center
of town and heading out to the forest behind. Initially the path wasn't
so nice, as hiking on roads in a city usually goes. Soon we were out of
town though, passing up through the forest behind, where residents were
having their evening workout. We walked just over an hour along easy
forest paths before setting up camp a little ways off the path in Armoy,
a smaller town just outside Thonon. For the first time on the trip there
were loads of mosquitos, and without a fire to clear them we didn't stay
out long.

After some two and a half weeks of preparation, I'd finally arrived. The
Alps. It'd already been an incredible experience, already more than
300km, and now the real trek would begin. The guidebook, finally more
than just dead weight, informed me that there would be nearly as much
elevation change in the first day of the Alps as there'd been in a week
of hiking in the Jura.

More rugged trails, harder climbs, harder descents, longer days. The
Alps. I wasn't sure I was ready, but it sure was beautiful.
