---
title: Walking in the Sun
date: '2016-06-23T00:00:00-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/146612237797/walking-in-the-sun
---

June 23—Day 6: St. Hippolyte

I woke up relatively early because my campsite was in plain sight. In
France wild camping ("camping au sauvage" or "bivouac") is legal on
pubic land, except in certain national parks and only in a small tent
for one night from 19:00 to 07:00. I was packed up by 08:00, and, having
nothing left to eat for breakfast, made my way down into town.

I easily found the market and bought some basics to resupply: a
baguette, some slices of chicken, an apple, a box of muesli, some cereal
bars (like Nature Valley), and a quick-cooking Uncle Ben's rice mix.
They only sold the full baguettes, so the baguette stretched out of my
pack comically.

As always, the most important thing when backpacking is weight. For
food, I try to have enough for two to three days, but not more than
2-2.5kg (4-5lbs). The best way to do it is to go into the store around
lunchtime so that you can buy some heavier items and eat them
straightaway. In any case, meals on the trail are simple: pasta, soup,
granola, sandwiches, snack bars, etc. Best to enjoy good food in cafes
and restaurants, where you don't have to carry all the ingredients.

After the market I had a small sandwich as lunch and returned to the
trail. It was a hot day, and there was some more mud, though not as bad
as the day in Brognard. This was the final part of the first section,
from Thann to Soulce-Cernay, some 120km. Between St. Hippolyte and
Soulce-Cernay I crossed a waterfall/river, and took the opportunity to
have a quick wash in the water. My clothes were still a bit damp from
the day before so I set them up on a line to dry. Wearing more shorts as
a bathing suit, I laid down in the river. The water was freezing cold
but it was refreshing on such a hot day.

A little ways on I passed a GR5 mile marker that seemed to be just about
the halfway point of the full trail. About 1100km to Hoek von Holland,
and some 1040km to Nice. Plenty of walking left!

Past Soulce-Cernay I took a rest at some farmhouses since the afternoon
sun was so hot. Some climbs, some descents, lots of sun. Outside
Courtefontaine I talked for a few minutes with a man who said he
maintained the trails in the area. He was happy to see me walking I
think.

A little ways on I was walking through fields again, but not so bad as
the day before. This was much more
peaceful: [http://youtu.be/q8smZfj7eUw](http://youtu.be/q8smZfj7eUw)

I stopped again in the evening after a long climb, at an empty
guesthouse (gîte). There was a wagon wheel with names carved in of
people who managed the house, one group had signed in 1974. I was laying
back and giving my feet a break when a car pulled up: a couple and their
two girls were staying in the house for the weekend. They were hikers
themselves, and we talked about the route through the Alps. Guillaume,
the man, looked like my dad back in the day. We shared a large bottle of
beer, then I went on to finish the climb.

By the time I walked through the town of Fessevillers, farmers were
finishing plowing their fields and were corralling the cows for the
night. I got stuck in the traffic for a bit.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/a68ba736549b016fb6fbcfbb91248752/tumblr_inline_o9egifTIuy1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

The last hour or so was very nice walking in the setting sun on paved
forest roads. I made one last climb, and found a small spot in the woods
to set up camp for the evening. Walking in the sun and heat all day was
exhausting, and I slept like a rock.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/d9a8d81586a13ef65c8fdfe01728fad2/tumblr_inline_o9egj0U9Q11uncvcw_1280.jpg)
