---
title: Shelter to Shelter, Too Late
date: '2016-08-05T09:45:38-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/148495949830/shelter-to-shelter-too-late
---

July 23—Day 36: Gîte Vers du Col de Ayes to Abri at Col du Fromage

Thought the shepherd would be back early in the morning, so I was ready
to go by 7. There was no sign of him when I left, but I appreciate early
starts more now anyway.

The scenery in the Queyras is just incredibly beautiful. A bit like the
Appalachians, or maybe the Smokies, but higher and rougher. I can't get
enough of the colors: greens, yellows, browns, and blacks. After
stopping for breakfast I passed over the Col des Ayes and down through
pines past a "via ferrata" (Italian name for a place to go rock
climbing). The whole region is forested, and beautiful mountain rivers
run down through the trees. Past the col the path followed a road
through a pleasant campground, and then into town at Brunissard. I
stopped by the Marie (town hall) for an early picnic lunch, eating the
usual bread and cheese and also a few chocolate covered, salted
graham-cracker caramels that I'd bought as a treat.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/481f2f08f3e18bb9785e71a09c7e36cd/tumblr_inline_obdq95BiID1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

Later on the trail passed by the grassy Lac du Roue and the
exceptionally beautiful woods of Forêt du Roue. It was far too early to
stop, but I wished I could've camped there a night. The trail was really
nice for a ways, with many side trails branching off through the trees.
A very steep, tough descent on dirt trails leading out of the woods
brought me to Châteaux Queyras, a fortified castle perched on a large
massif in the middle of a valley, standing tall above a small little
town.

The sky looked ominous, but after waiting a while and having a snack no
rain came. I crossed a bridge to leave town and headed for a shelter at
Col du Fromage; the trail was rough and made some big climbs, very steep
at times, back up through more woods but with occasional great views
back down to the valley.

As I got nearer to the col the weather turned, first fog then rain, and
for the first time on the trip I got caught out in a storm. When it was
a light rain I started walking quicker, but then it started to really
come down and I ran (as best as I was able) up the col to the shelter,
wind nearly blowing my pack cover off. The shelter turned out to be just
a lonely concrete room with no door and an open-air window. It wasn't
much for warmer but at least I was protected from the rain.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/a6329d4d1f34ee95fa43dd5ac40bb799/tumblr_inline_obdq4tDLll1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

I changed into dry clothes and hung up my wet pants and shirt, then
scraped together a few drier pieces of wood from inside the shelter to
make a fire—I got it going, but with no chimney I only managed to smoke
myself out again. The wind drafted through the window and out the door,
clearing the smoke but also making it quite cold, so before long I
bundled up inside my sleeping bag and went to sleep, hoping for better
weather in the morning.
