---
title: A Short Trip to Switzerland
date: '2016-07-22T09:45:32-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/147797352356/a-short-trip-to-switzerland
---

July 6—Day 19:Les Crottes, just outside La Chapelle d'Abondance

This was an easier day I thought, though the guidebook still puts it at
8 hours. It rained a bit overnight and into the early morning, but by
the time I was ready to start it had finished. The Scots had packed up
well before me, I guess, since there was no sign of them when I stepped
out of my tent.

I hiked to another col in the morning, Les Mattes, where the grass was
still wet and heavy with dew, soaking my pant legs. On the other side of
the pass the trail made a big loop down through an alpage, basically a
big grassy meadow with some wild flowers.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/83e04b856fac800cb5055e65a63a4f6d/tumblr_inline_oaokfng7UJ1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

While I was walking down a French guy caught up to me and we walked
together for a little while, stopping for lunch at the top of Col de
Bassachaux. His name is Antoine, which he felt was hard to pronounce for
non-French speakers. I couldn't really hear the difference between how
he said it and how said it, but he found it funny. He and his girlfriend
had decided to be vegetarians just before he started the trip, so his
lunch was just some bread and cheese with a tomato. I don't think that'd
fill me up enough for these long hikes.

After lunch the trail was pretty easy, mostly level, following along the
back side of the mountain. There was a nice view down into a valley and
across a lake to a town. The trail was shared at times with mountain
bikers, so you had to pay attention to not get run over. Later on, on
the southeast side of the mountain, there was some snow off to the side
of the trail; probably I'll be seeing more of that as I get up to higher
altitudes.

I passed the Refuge du Chésery, meant to be the finishing point for the
day, about 4PM—early, by my standards. The Scots had set up their tent
just before it and said hello. I stopped for a coffee in the refuge, but
then kept on, climbing a bit around Lac Vert, a beautiful green mountain
lake. The refuge and lake are right on the border with Switzerland, so
when you pass the lake you cross the border. Which means that I've now
hiked in Switzerland!

After the lake there were a few more refuges, but by then I was looking
for a place to camp for the night. The trail was following some pretty
well established roads (though unpaved) and the land was pretty steep to
either side, so I was getting a little nervous that I wouldn't find
anything. Fortunately I've got lots of experience wild camping from my
bike trip a few years ago, and I've always managed to find a spot. Sure
enough, after walking for about an hour, I found a good little spot just
off the path beside a stream and small waterfall. It was quite narrow,
just wide enough for my single-person tent, but I was happy to have it
and didn't waste any time getting set up.

That night the sky was clear and the stars were bright. I woke up after
midnight and watched the Milky Way pass over for a little while. A
beautiful spot.

