---
title: Fastlänger and the Flying Finn
date: '2016-08-13T11:01:21-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/148884983890/fastlänger-and-the-flying-finn
---

August 2—Day 46: Pas du Mont Colomb to Refuge du Merveilles

Today was all about the Vallée du Merveilles. There was a pair of cols
to get there, harder and steeper than I'd figured and made more
difficult because I wasn't allowed to use my poles. The valley is a
protected archeological site, with thousands of rock carvings dating
back to the Bronze Age (40,000 years ago!) Poles are prohibited to
protect the rocks from damage. Only a few carvings are seen from the
trail (you can hire a guide to see the others), but the landscape is
sight enough itself.

Before reaching the valley though, I had to first climb the rest of the
Pas du Mont Colomb and down the massive scree on the other side. It was
as rugged and rocky as the trail had ever been. For a while there were
practically no markers at all: you had to route find across the rocks,
connecting the dots between only a few, far apart cairns. Slow and
steady progress over big rocks, steep drops.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/f8f19b8afbee8a5f7507142d837c89ea/tumblr_inline_obsoxdzU321uncvcw_1280.jpg)

I stopped at the Refuge du Nice afters few hours walk; the refuge is
perched beautifully on a small outcropping above a large, dark
reservoir. I had a coffee and waited for lunchtime, finally ordering a
spaghetti bolognese. When I had finished eating and was on my way out,
who should I find sitting there but Mika again—I laughed, because he'd
only managed to stay in St. Dalmas one day before hitting the trail
again.We walked together leaving the refuge. Only three days left, and
it'd be nice to have someone to finish with in Menton.

The way to Col du Baisse was a rough climb up another rocky col, and
without my poles I really felt every step. You don't know how much they
do for you until you spend a few hours without them.

I climbed fast though, and Mika nicknamed me "fastlänger." He would take
smoke breaks at the top of each col, so I joked that it was his fault
the fog was still hanging around blocking any views. His voice was
strong as a giant's, and whenever he talked it boomed across the space
between the mountains.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/cd2e933882f8d6c68ed0dfb66c4b4356/tumblr_inline_obop4kkBoe1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

Past the col we made a rocky descent (hard for the knees) down past Lac
du Basto, another reservoir that was quite large and resting beautifully
at the base of a few mountains. We paused for a snack while looking over
the lake, then threw on our packs again and climbed up one last col.

Finally we entered the Vallée du Merveilles, where rocks were pastel
shades of purple and green. Big smooth rocks like boilerplates stood
alongside the trail, streaked with emerald green or white-pink pressure
veins. It was a foreign landscape for sure.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/f3319830a560231353ad51a35d468c95/tumblr_inline_obsp1lTDnH1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

A guide (who seemed to be working as a guard) pointed us in the
direction of Le Crist, one of the carvings you can see from the trail.
It was only the size of a handprint; a 40,000 year old mark.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/b3b54e5c6ed738ec06b93aa533370d6e/tumblr_inline_obsp42ceIV1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

We camped at the bivouac site beside the Refuge de Merveilles. Even
though it was the middle of the week, the place was packed with people:
hikers and tourers staying to walk just around the valley. There wasn't
space for us to eat in the refuge, so Mika made some macaroni pasta and
we used the cheese and bread I had.

The sun set on the valley and mountains around. Here, I knew, was my
last campsite in the mountains.

