---
title: Of Frost and Sunsets
date: '2016-07-30T09:45:41-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/148197090175/of-frost-and-sunsets
---

July 16—Day 29: Refuge du Col de la Leisse to Refuge de l'Arpont

I slept well, warm enough inside my sleeping bag despite the freezing
temperature outside. A few times I poked my head out, and boy was it
cold. Woke in the morning before 6, early because bivouac-ing (7pm-7am)
is regulated in the park. There was a thin layer of frost all over the
outside of my tent and on the ground. I knew there'd be snow to cross,
but I hadn't expected such cold weather!

I went into the shelter and had breakfast, muesli, stealing a bowl of
coffee and some milk from the pot left at another table. The shelter was
in a valley, and it was still cold in the shadow even after the sun has
risen.

The trail went around behind the shelter, following the river to descend
a long ways into the valley. It crossed a few more rocky sections, hard
rocks jagged and stair-like, eventually leveling out at a riverbed and
walking on more gently on a grassier path. I stopped for a rest at Pont
de la Croé Vie, an old stone arch bridge over the rushing Torrent de la
Leisse. Fields of wild flowers grew nearby.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/321948dbb0303ebc5947b8f198307155/tumblr_inline_ob47v9hpMP1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

There are three main routes through the Vanoise, the GR5, the GR55, and
the GR5E. I'd switched to the GR55 on entering the Vanoise, since it was
supposed to be the most exciting route of the three. After reviewing the
guidebook a few times, I decided to switch back to the GR5 at Refuge du
Entre Deux Eaux, just past the bridge and the halfway point of both
variants. It was a hard choice: the 55 promised better climbing and
incredible views, but it also passed through a city at
Pralognan-la-Vanoise and was more likely to be buried in snow. The 5
stayed more level on a "balcon path" near the roof of the valley,
crossing fewer cols but promising good views to the towns and mountains
around the valley. Maybe I'll do the rest of the 55 on some later hike.
Before making the switch, I stopped at the refuge for a coffee and small
snack: a compote du pommes, which turned out to just be a homemade
applesauce, more or less. Good, though.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/6ffc6f3bcb8b497612d4e4b43b7c4610/tumblr_inline_oapvsjR02m1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

After the break I followed the GR5 once again, climbing a ways up,
through a pack of cattle lying lazily on the trail, to reach a pair of
lakes at Lacs des Lozières, where I stopped for long lunch. It was a
very peaceful place: no other hikers passed for a while, there were no
marmots crying out, the weather was better now that it was the
afternoon, and the lakes calmly reflected the summit of a
glacier-covered mountain. I stayed a long while, in no hurry to leave.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/d737b3d8383b50fb322f8f3d6244f38f/tumblr_inline_ob47t8ItkD1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

The section after the lakes was fun, crossing a stream before a short
climb to a very rocky section. Big slabs of rock, cracked in places,
sprawling out all around. The way was marked by cairns—little piles of
stacked rocks—except there were so many that it was unclear what the
real route was. I just walked whatever path my feet followed, making my
own stepping stones across cascades and connecting the dots cairn to
cairn on open faced rock.

Eventually a more distinct trail returned, though the rocks continued,
leading to a long and convoluted descent toward the refuge. I passed
close to a number of bouquetin at various times, some younger ones even;
they weren't so afraid, since hunting is not allowed in the park.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/c95e6c6bf881e4084f556bef7a47acfc/tumblr_inline_oapvx47sOs1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

Again the sun was setting before I'd made it to the refuge: I'd taken a
few long breaks, since after reviewing the schedule I realized that I
had more days to spare than I had originally thought. I'd been making
good time the whole trip, and now could relax a bit. On the descent, way
off in the distance, there were a few farm homes that I thought were the
place; another late night. Then I came round a corner and suddenly the
Refuge de l'Arpont appeared as though from nowhere, a beautiful river
stone building with accents of wood framing around doors and windows,
built into a niche in the mountain blockhouse style with a half circle
capping one end. Inside, there was a large dining area with great big
windows offering panoramic views of the mountains.

I paid 5€ for a place to bivouac and found that the area designated for
campers was on an angled hillside; no spot was level, and tents were
crowded next to one another. Wild camping would've been much more
preferable; silly to have to pay for a site worse than I could find on
my own. I didn't have much choice.

That evening there was another beautiful view of mountain peaks glowing
in the light at sunset. After dark, the stars and moon filled the sky,
and nothing else mattered.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/ebea08a958a71abe305ed539cdd395c6/tumblr_inline_oapvxk022d1uncvcw_1280.jpg)
