---
title: High Bridge at Noon
date: '2016-08-05T17:15:50-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/148511683111/high-bridge-at-noon
---

July 25—Day 38: Ancient Observatory to Col du Mallamorte

After days of rain, this was a hot day with a lot of road walking. Not
the best trails.

At my shelter on top of the mountain I made a coffee and had a good
breakfast, enjoying fine views in the morning light. The descent back
down from the summit felt like walking on the moon: my shadow stretched
long over powdery, loose grey shale. For a momentI did some back of the
envelope calculations to see what percent of the way I'd walked to the
moon. Not even close.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/c5fbc517f8c51072c34a08eb9d738a2e/tumblr_inline_obdqmj40ZD1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

Made it to La Barge after a long and winding descent, hot in the sun. I
was wearing my pants and long sleeve since the summit had been colder,
so I stopped in the crumbling little village to change into shorts and a
t-shirt. The way alternated between roads, fields, and a nicer path
beside a river, the trail slowly making its way down through and across
a valley. In the distance was Le Pont Châtelet, a magnificent stone
bridge arched a hundred meters above the river and I thought of how cool
it would be to cross it; then the trail went right up and over the
bridge! I stopped for snack (the other quiche) and to enjoy the view.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/c7b62a6b4d36f6529d4738447564ffe4/tumblr_inline_obdqwmIrVC1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

After the bridge was a sweaty climb to Fouillouse where I stopped for
big picnic lunch and a beer—the local brewery is called La Sauvage, and
the brown ale was quite strong. I took a long rest, feeling tired. The
heavy pack was taking its toll.

Made a late hike past Col du Vallonette, headed for the lake just beyond
but finding it dried up. At one point I went over a hill and a half
dozen marmots cried out and scattered. Probably interrupted their
evening poker game. I set up camp late, just before Col du Mallamorte,
finding a small spot on a bouldery hillside, stopping before the way got
really steep.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/1ecc5508ce972759c658329c148c6167/tumblr_inline_obdquwTBsA1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

More rain clouds had shown up in the evening, but for a while I had a
fine view to a valley.

