---
title: On the Rocks
date: '2016-08-12T17:05:37-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/148851481519/on-the-rocks
---

August 1—Day 45: Refuge le Boreon to Pas du Mont Colomb

The route through the Mercantour doesn't pass through any towns for the
first few days, but seeing as I was at the end of my trip, I wasn't
interested in carrying that much food anymore. So my plan was to eat at
the refuges but still spend the nights wild camping (assuming no more
storms).

The guidebook has you walk from Refuge le Boreon to Refuge du Nice,
passing La Madone de Fenestre on the way. I had time to spare, so I
figured I'd stop to camp somewhere between the latter two. The trick was
that between them was a rocky col at Mont Colomb, so I wasn't too sure
what my options would be once I started the climb. Well, no way to know
but to go for it.

The trail was easy again leaving Refuge le Boreon, contouring a ridge in
the forest and crossing several footbridges over a river. Somehow there
were lots of people on the trail now, so somewhere there must've been a
junction with another, more popular trail. The new hikers were in big
groups that blocked the trail and walked slow. Ugh. Took forever to get
around a few groups. Trail etiquette isn't as well known as it should
be.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/b7a8964c586594e50fa7199b2a538c6a/tumblr_inline_obsmd886S01uncvcw_1280.jpg)

I stopped at Lac Trecolpas, a beautiful big drop of water sitting just
before the Pas de Ladres. When the sun was out it was perfect, but
clouds kept passing over and in the shade it was chilly. I didn't have
much for lunch, but made some coffee and ate the last pieces of a
chocolate bar I had. The climb up from the lake was harder than I'd
figured, and I got s bit lightheaded from not having eaten anything. I
had to stop halfway up the climb and finish the last of my food, just a
bit of bread and a can of tuna in olive oil. It wasn't much, but helped
settle the caffeine and sugar rush I was feeling from the coffee and
chocolate bar.

Over the pass there was a good view across to the next climb at Pass du
Mont Colomb. There's a variant route that does an extra climb up to Col
du Fenestre at the border with Italy, but I opted for the standard,
faster route into Madone-Fenestre since I was still feeling a bit off
and wanted to get something to eat. I stopped at the Refuge du
Madone-Fenestre and had a healthy sized pâté sandwich that hit the spot
perfectly. I ate lunch with Helle, who had arrived there well before me,
having hitched a ride for Le Boreon. She had injured her ankle just
before her trip and so was refuge hopping while waiting for her friends
who were still hiking. Nice to meet her again.

I left the refuge in the late afternoon, taking a few scraps of bread
with me and hoping to make it a couple hours up the col for camp. There
was a small vacherie (cheese farm) just after the refuge, and I bought
some tomme de montagne to go with the bread (emergency food, since I
still planned to eat at refuges).

The path up the col was briefly grassy, then quickly became rocky and
bouldery. A vast scree of heavy rocks spread across the col. Fortunately
the rocks were mostly limestone which has good traction; rocks can be
treacherous if they're not the friendly kind. At one point the path
climbed a massive boulder that requires a "hands on" scramble. I had to
reach up and place my poles ahead/above, then use my hands for a hold
and counter-pressure while making rock-climbing like moves up the rock
face. It was three moves in all for the first rock, then another couple
more at another boulder. Not easy with a pack on!

Something I haven't mentioned yet: my boots are definitely showing signs
of wear. They're in pretty good shape considering the abuse I've put
them through, but the tread is definitely worn down and there are a few
gaps opening up at creases/folding points. They're still waterproof and
I've not had a single blister in more than 700km, so I've been
absolutely thrilled with them.

As I got further on in the climb the day passed into evening, and when I
found a rounded pass about 200m below the col I figured it best to stop.
The ground was littered with rocks, but there was some grass and the
rest of the climb looked more rocky and more steep. Better to stop here
than press my luck climbing any more.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/b242fd44fa6d0ca4c10298ecaf52e846/tumblr_inline_oboozos96K1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

I made my last packet of soup with a few of the scraps of bread and
watched some weather pass through the valley, looking back toward the
few buildings and church that made up the refuge Madone-Fenestre. A
beautiful sight from what I figured would be one of my last mountain
camps. There would only be one more col above 2500m, then just foothills
on the way toward Menton and the Mediterranean.

I sat for a while, thinking about how soon I'd be reaching the end and
getting caught up in my own thoughts. A thick white fog rolled in late
and I closed the rainfly from inside my tent. My phone picked up signal
from somewhere and I was able to send a few messages home before going
to bed. I didn't even feel the rocks under my tent. When I woke in the
middle of the night the stars were as clear and bright as I'd ever seen
them.

