---
title: How Not to Prepare for a Long Distance Trek
date: '2016-06-01T19:02:04-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/145277323997/how-not-to-prepare-for-a-long-distance-trek
---

Let's just say that I might've prepared differently under different
circumstances. As it is, in a couple weeks I'll be starting on a two
month-long trek, without having done much by way of planning or
preparation. I bought my flight just a few days ago and a train pass
this morning (it should come by next week…). A fair bit of gear — shoes
and trekking poles, for example — has yet to arrive. I was more fit a
month ago, but I've let myself slack lately. I'm only just working out
how far I'll hike and where I plan to be each night, and I don't
actually have a place to live yet once I finish the trip.

Some of you will probably consider me more than a bit foolish in light
of all this, and I'm half a mind to agree. On the other hand, it's hard
to really feel ready for a trip like this the first time around. There
are too many variables, not enough time. I wish I could do a few
week-long trips for the experience, but a few day trips will have to
suffice. When it comes right down to it, you have to just trust that it
can be done and then go out and hike.

![]()

I do have a great guidebook, _Trekking the GR5 Trail — Through the Alps
from Lake Geneva to Nice_, and that provides a detailed guide of the
trail and its several variants. I've also downloaded maps for the entire
region, including trails and topography. I'm working out a schedule for
each day, and marking out where I want to camp each night. Planning that
is pretty difficult though, since the distance I cover each day is
dependent on my own (untested) strength, along with weather and trail
conditions. I'm including some flex days spaced throughout the trip to
allow some leeway. My conservative estimate is 49 hiking days from Thann
to Menton, and I've got 53 days to work with (plus a few extra if things
really call for it).

## Resources to consider if you want to do the GR5
Since I don't have much experience myself, I've been relying on a few
websites and blogs from other hikers for information and encouragement.
[Antti Rantanen did the Alpine
GR5](https://longdistancetrail.wordpress.com/trails/2013-gr5-the-grand-traverse-of-the-alps/)
in just under four weeks, and made a couple videos to document his trek.
[Ravi walked the entire GR5](https://onefootatatime.wordpress.com/),
from Hoek van Holland to Nice, in some four months. Australians Jenny
and Keith have done just about [every major hike in
France](http://walkinginfrance.info/) except the GR5, but offer a mature
perspective on the experience of walking a great distance. Rebecca and
Barry are [walking in Spain right now](https://wildpilgrims.com/)along
the GR1, have done walks in France in the past, write insightful essays
of life on the trail, and have a good gear list for long hikes.
[GR-Infos](http://www.gr-infos.com/) is a really great resource for all
the GR routes in France and has downloadable GPX data for each trail.
The GR5 itself has [a dedicated website](http://grfive.com/) maintained
by David May that provides really invaluable information and advice.
Though it's in French, Geoportail provides [highly detailed
maps](http://www.geoportail.gouv.fr/accueil) for all of France,
including topographic maps. Finally, [Move Your
Alps](http://www.moveyouralps.com/en/gr5-alps) has detailed guides of
the route, accommodations along the way, difficulty ratings, and
elevation profiles.

All things considered, I'm in good company and feeling pretty good.
