---
title: Worth the Climb
date: '2016-07-22T17:15:35-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/147813704664/worth-the-climb
---

July 8—Day 21: Samoëns

This was a long, long day, but really enjoyable, and finished with some
of the best views I've ever seen.

I woke early, even before my alarm went off, which is nice. I was still
in the forest and the trail was excellent, climbing a bit then dropping
down on a gravel track. It followed along a river a ways, and was really
nice walking. I passed a big waterfall, Cascade de Rouget, that was
spraying water all over like rain.

A few quite steep but short climbs shortcut the switchbacks of a road
and brought me into another forest. It was a pretty popular spot for day
hikers and groups, and the path was even a bit crowded at times. The
trail climbed the whole way, opening up a few times to great views
across the valley back toward Samoëns, then passing a pair of
waterfalls; a rainbow hung in the mist. A guide asked me about my trip
and seemed impressed when I told him I was heading all the way to
Menton, so that was a nice boost.

I kept climbing, planning to have lunch at the Colette du Anterne, a
lower pass before the real col. Boy did it take a long time even to get
to that point, and I was really hungry when I finally reached the
clearing. I saw a better spot by a river a little ways ahead so I
grabbed a snack and hiked another kilometer or two down to the Ruisseau
d'Anterne, a beautiful little mountain river (I could see the water
melting right off the glacier!) I thought I might try another river
swim, but when I stepped in my feet pretty much went numb right away. I
tried a few times but couldn't bring myself to go under, so I just
washed my clothes and hung them on my line to dry.

I took a long break for lunch, tired from the climb and just enjoying
laying in the sun. Later on I passed Chalets d'Anterne and Refuge Alfred
Wills, where there was a small museum. I guess he was the founder of the
Alpine Club and had built a shelter in the mid-1800s that had been
destroyed in the war. The rebuilt shelter was named after him.

After the chalets was a smaller climb up to Lac d'Anterne, a beautiful
blue glacial lake on the side of a large, marshy basin. There were even
some icebergs floating in the water.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/a9870a49e300dc4e4c09b2ac87626008/tumblr_inline_oaok82fwGu1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

I left the lake to make the last climb, finally reaching Col Anterne in
the evening after chasing it all day. The way up had lots of snow, more
than I expected to have to deal with. While I was climbing up the sky
turned dark and I was worried I would be caught in a storm. The view
from the col was spectacular, to many peaks and a huge valley. I didn't
stay too long though, since I didn't want to risk the storm. There was a
shelter just a half hour on, down a rocky slope.

The Refuge de Moëde Anterne had a small cafe and I stopped on for a
coffee and to see what the weather would do. The Scots were there
already, tent set up beside the refuge, and we said hello and talked
about the day.

I left the refuge late, after 6:30 at night, since the storm had moved
on and you had to pay to camp at the refuge. There was no one else
walking on the trail this late, but the views into the valley were
incredible. It was a huge valley, with massive forested mountains on
either side and a beautiful river running through the middle. An
absolutely idyllic scene in the setting sunlight.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/78591180af506c34cc91edd04be19969/tumblr_inline_oaok8yeMO21uncvcw_1280.jpg)

I found a campsite really late, by the ruins of Chalets de Moëde. It had
been quite steep heading down into the valley and the climb back up was
on a narrow lath, so I was lucky to find anything at all. It turned out
to be a great site: a bit angled, but with a view worth every step it
took to reach it.

