---
title: Walking Day and Night
date: '2016-07-26T09:45:27-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/147997639031/walking-day-and-night
---

July 10—Day 23: Les Houches

This was a strange day, and not my favorite hiking-wise. I'd stayed at a
campground in Les Houches with the intention of recharging my camera
batteries and power bank (a battery that I use to charge my phone). I
had plugged in the power bank to charge overnight, but in the morning it
wasn't charged at all. Frustrating. It's not essential, but I have
detailed offline maps, GPS, and the route itself mapped on my phone, so
I do use it quite a bit. I decided to give it another chance, leaving
the device to charge while I went to nearby Chamonix for the
morning/afternoon.

Ever since that night in Charquemont my sleeping pad has been leaking
air, and despite the glue and tape repairs it still only lasted about
half the night. There was a Quecha store in Chamonix, and they said
they'd replace it—funny thing is, this sleeping pad is actually from my
bike trip several years ago, and I'd already had to exchange a different
one for the same problem. So now I'm on my third, having only paid for
the first one! (I worded things a bit differently when talking with
them).

I took the bus to Chamonix using a free pass from the campground (a
nice, unexpected perk), replaced the sleeping pad and bought a new pair
of sunglasses since my original pair had broken. Aka, I stepped on them,
then lost them. This is why I don't buy sunglasses. New rule: the
glasses must always be attached to some part of my kit, like my pack, or
my poles, or my face. Maybe I won't lose them that way. Chamonix is a
busy ski town, and I explored it a bit, stopping for lunch at La
Bivouac, a restaurant that listed souvlaki as one of the if specialties.
Couldn't pass that up, and it was quite good.

Back in Les Houches, I found that still nothing had charged. So either
my adapter wasn't working (it gets really hot, so maybe it had shut off
to protect itself) or I don't know what. It was now past 2 in the
afternoon and I couldn't wait any longer if I was going to get any
hiking done for the day, so I packed up and started for the trail with
just my phone charged.

Well let me tell you, this was a hot, hot day down in the valley,
pushing more than 30°C (89°F), and for some reason I was wearing pants
instead of my shorts. I'm too stupid and stubborn to change (I'd have to
take off my boots, you see), so I made the very steep climb over Col de
Voza in the heat of the day, wearing pants and carrying more water than
I needed because I thought I'd want it since it was so hot. I took the
climb in little 50m chunks, picking a spot just a little ways ahead and
hiking there then pausing to cool down. The trail was a gravel road
servicing a ski slope, so it pretty much went straight up. A couple of
trucks drove past, and a cloud of dust followed behind them that ended
up covering me. At the col there was a station for the Mont Blanc
railway, a line that was built near the turn of the century with the
intent to go all the way to the summit. Needless to say, they didn't
make it.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/020ce9c833b964538f98bf395f316133/tumblr_inline_oaprzqh0XO1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

After the horrible climb and steep descent of Col de Voza, the trail
passed more easily though a few small towns on its way to Les
Contamines. I wanted to get there to watch the UEFA final later that
evening: France against Portugal. It was a few hours going, fortunately
more pleasant walking than the Col de Voza had been, and I reached the
last town about 8PM, an hour before the match.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/4da7adacccb0d0d7d9426d41d0422668/tumblr_inline_oaps1nHS9Z1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

There was a restaurant right across from a big screen in the central
plaza where a crowd was starting to gather to watch the game, and I sat
down for another meal—their special was a burger with Beaufort cheese
and rashers (i.e., bacon), a perfect bar-food meal for watching the
game. The atmosphere was great, with fans dressed in blue and cheering
on the team. But the game ran long into overtime and France ended up
losing, which pretty much killed the good vibes and everyone left
without much fanfare. Bummer.

It was nearly midnight and I was still in town, so I had to hike another
hour or so by headlamp to find a spot away from buildings and houses.
Where the afternoon had been blisteringly hot, the night was cold, made
colder by the fact that the trail followed a mountain river that chilled
the air beside it. I found a random campsite in some trees just off the
path; out of sight, I hoped (these sort of things look very different at
night than they do in the daylight). When I finally got to sleep it was
past 1:30 in the morning.

What a strange day.

