---
title: Walking in the Rain, Camping on Mountainsides
date: '2016-07-13T16:04:51-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/147356136473/walking-in-the-rain-camping-on-mountainsides
---

July 2—Day 15: Chalet Rose

In just about every place I've been I've heard the expression "If you
don't like the weather here, wait 10 minutes." It's usually true: rain
rarely lasts all day, and I've learned from previous trips that, in case
of bad weather, it's usually best to find shelter early and wait a bit
to see what happens. Most often the rain will pass and you can continue
after a short rest.

For this reason I stayed in the tent late into the morning, waiting for
the rain from overnight to pass. But it doesn't always, and this weather
was here to stay, as a mist hanging in the trees, and sometimes as a
light rain.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/732e7b8fd86d361110ed16583d2e6918/tumblr_inline_o9uj85X3N91uncvcw_1280.jpg)

With morning heading toward noon and no other options, we packed up our
tents and donned our rain gear: the guys' tent and sleeping bags had
gotten pretty wet since we couldn't get the stakes in properly.
Fortunately my own tent had stayed mostly dry (on the inside), so just a
few of my things were wet. It was some 6km to Les Rousses, over minor
roads and through soaking wet grass that slicked our pant legs with
water. We walked with intent into town, moving as quick as we could over
the slippery paths. It was a bigger place than I expected, serving as a
hub for skiing and outdoor sports. We went straight into the first
restaurant we saw, eager to be out of the rain and to dry off. Sitting
at a table inside, we had a beer and some lunch and waited out the rain.

I ordered without really understanding what it was I'd asked for and out
came a small salad with basket of fries and a steak with mushroom and
cream sauce that was very good.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/e05fe9d8dc77449cfb2f839ce28198f8/tumblr_inline_o9uj81wOwN1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

The rain still held on after lunch, and we left planning to reach a
shelter relatively nearby and call it a short day. The lake and Nyon
were more than we could reach that evening anyway, so we figured it
would be fine to get within striking distance and then make up the
difference with an early start the next morning.

Leaving Les Rousses we took a shortcut along a busy road, rather
terrible walking but saving us an hour or more in the rain. Then in La
Cure we made a wrong turn and ended up walking along roads again, but it
seemed that the GR5 was also following roads, and we we going roughly
the same direction, so we kept on. The rain finally started to let up as
we reached the first shelter, which we found occupied. It was a big
place, actually a chalet available as a weekend rental, but the people
weren't interested in sharing. Another shelter was close by, just across
the (unguarded) border into Switzerland, but turned out to also a
rental, and was also locked. We'd not been so lucky with shelters in
this region. We walked on, rain still falling lightly, planning to camp
somewhere near Saint Cergue.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/48a15aa534a113d98d353b05cca5fe6c/tumblr_inline_o9uj8omcX01uncvcw_1280.jpg)

As we approached town we passed a few homes and an older woman who was
walking her three small dogs (pugs, not my favorite breed). She walked
along with us for a bit, talking with Hugo and Manuel. Apparently we
were closer to Nyon than we'd thought, only some 4 hours away. She
pointed out a view between houses down to the lake and gave us
directions into town (since we weren't following the trail). It was all
in quickly spoken French, so I didn't catch any of the details, but I
understood the gist of the conversation and caught a few names of
landmarks.

We reached Saint Cergue about 18:00 and finally saw the sun for the
first time that day. We had kilos of cheese but no bread, so we bought
the one baguette available in town, even though it was quite expensive
since we were in Switzerland. Manuel couldn't believe a baguette would
cost 4€. Hugo tore off a piece and joked that each bite cost 0.50€.

There weren't markings for the GR5 so we followed a pedestrian route out
of town. We were walking out of the mountains now, descending steeply
down to the lake, and the road swung back and forth across the slope. By
contrast, the path chose to go straight down; a hard descent.

We stopped a little ways on to set up for the night before getting too
close to town. Wild camping isn't so well received in Switzerland as
compared with France, and we were headed toward more developed areas
where there wouldn't be any discrete places, so we camped on what looked
like an infrequently used maintenance road off the path. It wasn't much
space or terribly level, but it was better than paying for a hotel in
town.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/d2d71f14c828626573b5327d60a98bd4/tumblr_inline_o9uj8xkLXa1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

And it was actually a pretty good spot in the end: we fashioned a low
table and some stools from a few logs and stumps laying in the grass,
sharing the cheese and bread for dinner. There was a great view down to
the lake and across to Mont Blanc and all the other peaks. It was an
incredible view, especially knowing that we'd be climbing those peaks in
just a few days.

There was no space for a fire though, and it was very windy, so we all
turned in early to keep warm. I fell asleep thinking of the days ahead,
and of hiking in the Alps.

