---
title: Lemons and Light
date: '2016-08-15T11:01:33-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/148983487788/lemons-and-light
---

Days 50 and on: Menton to Paris

Fifty days of hiking. I'm still reflecting on that.

For the moment, I was just enjoying walking without a backpack. Menton
is a beautiful town, mostly quiet, but with plenty to see for a few
days. A much nicer finish than walking into the larger, louder city of
Nice. Menton is known as the world capital of lemons, though it's more a
springtime affair. I had some good meals, enjoying the fine
Mediterranean lifestyle for a few days. In a funny coincidence, I bumped
into Uli outside a barbershop. It's almost unbelievable that we'd run
into each other like that. We met for dinner, and the next morning for
coffee. Certainly it was special to finish the trek with friends from
the trail.

After a few days in Menton, I traveled by train up to Paris, the "city
of light." I had a few days left before my flight home, and Paris was
spectacular. I'd seen the city once before, on my bike trip a few years
ago, but this time was different: I stayed in an AirBnB in the center of
the city and had four days to just relax. I hopped from bakery to
bakery, into markets, galleries, and parks, past the Eiffel, Louvre, and
Notre Dame and onto bridges over the Seine. Paris is a stunningly
beautiful city.

And so, I'm now writing this from my apartment in Boston. This weekend
I'll move to New York City to start my next adventure, living in one of
the biggest and greatest cities on Earth. It's a world apart from the
mountains, and I'm not sure it's really sunk in, just how different it
will be.

This trek was more than I ever imagined it could be. It was a massive
challenge, and tremendously rewarding. I'm deeply thankful to the people
I've met along the way, and to my friends and family who encouraged me.
It's been one of the best experiences of my life, and one of the most
important. I know now that this won't be my last long-distance hike.

Bon voyage! À bientôt!

