---
title: Thann
date: '2016-06-17T21:48:47-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/146234223312/thann
---

June 17â€”Day 0: Thann to Col du Hundsruck
![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/d4230e72309745cdc54232b2be4f3187/tumblr_inline_o93mcfpH861uncvcw_1280.jpg)

I arrived in town later than I'd hoped after waiting on the platform for
two trains that never arrived. I ended up taking the tram, basically a
train but with local service only, and got into town some time around
15:00. I stopped in at the Tourist Office to ask about weather
conditions and a place to eat; it was a bit chilly and looked like rain,
so I wanted something warm. I didn't find the Italian spot she
recommended and instead stepped into a small cafe.

The place was empty, and for a minute I wasn't sure it was even open.
Then someone came around, and with broken Spanish and French, I managed
to order a sandwich. Turns out sandwiches here are more like pastries
filled with meat and cheese instead of jam. A small lunch. After eating,
I ended up I talking for a few hours with Sophie, Alice, and their
mother, who run the place and wanted to know more about my trip. It was
great company, and only after saying several goodbyes did I leave to
find the trail.

I left the cafe heavy hearted. Here I was in France, starting a long and
difficult trek on my own and with little sleep or preparation. I felt
foolish, homesick, and totally alone. I was overwhelmed by what I'd set
myself up for.

Without many other options, I started for a trail that would take me out
of town. I walked to a nearby fountain to fill up, finding a marker for
the Camino del Santiago on the way (shown above).

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/ba06ebe5327dfd3b3d0041ceec7d3fed/tumblr_inline_o93mg8DrRT1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

After a little ways of following the road and smaller path, I found my
first marker for the GR5. I was excited at first, until I realized that
the sign pointed directly up a steep hill covered in wet leaves and
loose stones. Great. I climbed at a sharp angle for some hundred or more
meters, sliding back a few times and having to take several beaks.
Finally the trail broke off from its ascent and I continued a little
ways until finding a fallen tree blocking the path. In fact, the path
itself seemed to be falling away.

Now, here's where I made a mistake and learned a lesson I'll never
forget. Instead of walking back, or even checking my map or gps, I
crossed over the tree and kept on walking what was a visible but
apparently out-of-use trail. After a little ways more, the trail was
clearly gone, having become nothing more than an animal track, and I was
essentially just walking across a steep hillside. In hindsight, I
should've realized that I hadn't seen a trail blaze in a while. Lesson
learned: always keep an eye out for trail blazed. I checked the gps and
saw that I was on the wrong trail, or really not on a trail at all,
standing some ten meters uphill from the GR5.

Bad decision number two: instead of returning to where the (wrong) trail
had ended, I chose to try and scrape my way down to the GR5. Now, going
back wouldn't have been easy since I'd already crossed some gnarly
parts. But going down wasn't any better, and I found myself leaning
heavily on my poles for support, balancing my pack while testing the
stability of clumps of sticks, dirt, and leaves and working my way past
uprooted trees and small runoff waterfalls that made the ground slick
and untrustworthy.

It was extremely tense. Physically and mentally I was totally exhausted
but I had to stay concentrated for every step. For each placement of my
poles I kept an eye toward where I could catch myself if I fell (which I
did, twice).

Finally I reached the trail. After the horrible start, the actual trail
was easy walking, following more or less levelly above a road. I walked
an hour or so more before turning off trail near the Col du Hundsruck to
set up camp for the night. I hadn't seen anyone since leaving town
except a glimpse of some cyclists flying past downhill. When I tried my
headlamp, it didn't turn on. Must've turned itself on inside my pack and
drained the batteries. I didn't have the energy to change them, and
instead I just set up camp in the weak moonlight.

I'd found the trail, but I'd lost heart, and my morale was super low.
Tired, hungry, scared, alone, and angry at myself, I managed to send a
few somewhat desperate messages home before wrapping up in my bag and
almost immediately falling asleep.

I wasn't even bothered by the electro-house music that came out of
nowhere, pulsing loudly late into the night from some unseen shelter
nearby.

"What am I doing here?"

