---
title: From Germany to france
date: '2016-06-17T08:11:38-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/146058559607/from-germany-to-france
---

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/3f1c3dd3329599859a3d794759e850e0/tumblr_inline_o8x0i0CUGO1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

Almost missed the train this morning. They sure don't stay in the
station for long. Fortunately, even though it was just passing 4:30 in
the morning, I wasn't the only one trying to catch the train, and a
small group of us just managed to get on board. The train rolled out of
the station into another rainy Berlin morning, heading southwest to
Basel. I settled in for the long ride.

I started to go through my guidebook another time but it wasn't long
before I fell asleep. I've been staying up late the past few nights, and
even though I kept waking up at each stop, it was a needed rest. The
train was busier than I expected for a Friday morning and my car was
full most of the way. I might've tried to talk with my neighbor if only
I could have kept my eyes open. I wasn't hearing any English anyway.

As we got closer to Switzerland, more people carrying backpacks started
to get on. I wondered which trails they might be headed for. My pack
seemed the biggest: most Europeans use the refuges and go on shorter
trips rather than wild camp or hike for so long. Probably I'll
appreciate that method more in a few days.

It's still early in the season for hiking, and the weather in France is
wet and cold. The forecast for the next several days is rain, which
makes for a discouraging start. I knew I would hit rain hiking for so
long, but having it rain all the first week is especially tough. For the
moment it's only cloudy, so I'll take it.

I'm writing this from the platform in Mulhouse, a short way from my
starting point in Thann. My final connecting train never arrived (not
sure what happened), so I'm waiting for the next one to come though. At
least they're fairly frequent. Once I reach Thann I'll grab something to
eat and then try to put a few miles in. This first part of my trek is
pretty loose and I'm just trying to build strength and get in a rhythm
before the much more challenging Alps section.

Here I go!

