---
title: Boue.
date: '2016-06-21T00:00:00-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/146401981792/boue
---

June 21—Day 04: Brognard to Source du la Doubs

In the morning, after breakfast, Joseph drove me down to Brognard, a
small town just outside the larger city of Montbéliard. Another short
trip by car that saved me a days walk or more. We easily found a marking
for the trail and I put on my pack. He wished me good weather and good
travels, and then I was back on the GR5. Hope to see those folks again
someday. Merci beaucoup!

The trail followed a canal, and reminded me of my bike tour several
years ago. I can't be sure (Sam has the route), but we might've even
ridden over the same path. I know we were in the area at least, having
spent a few days with friends of Sam outside of Basel. The walkway was
paved and flat, perfect for biking but not as nice for walking.

Leaving the canal, I entered more woods, usually a great place to walk.
Here though, in a lower region between mountain ranges, the path was a
trough of mud. I don't mind if I never see that section again. It went
on for two hours, getting worse before it got better, and then worse
still. A symphony of squishes, with multiple encores. I never expected
to test my shoes so thoroughly, and fortunately they held up as
champions.

[http://youtu.be/LMLmJ5m\_KHM](http://youtu.be/LMLmJ5m_KHM)

By my count, there are three types of mud:

Black mud is wet and sloppy and squishes underfoot. It's made from
crushed leaves, dirt, sticks and the rest. It's often deep, rutted
through by mountain bike or ATV tracks, and smells like mud. It makes
for slow walking and pulls at your boots, but is otherwise harmless.

Grey mud is thicker, harder, more viscous, and more of a nuisance. It
sticks to the bottoms of your shoes and ruins their traction. On slopes,
it's cause for slips and falls. On level ground it will still make you
slide somehow. It tends to hold pools of water, and seems to be made of
crushed rock or clay.

Then there's green mud. Green mud is as much water and plant as mud.
It's usually found on the sides of the trail in tall grass, under a few
centimeters of water. This is the kind of mud that frogs love. It always
has standing water, often with grass or algae growing. It's swampy, wet,
and a slog to walk through. You won't slip, but your pant legs and shoes
will be soaked.

Mud. Mud mud mud mud mud mud mud.

Finally out of the swamp, I had lunch at a picnic table and then napped
in a hammock outside Dasle. Walking again, I stopped to pet a dog that
had been sleeping by a fence. Dogs have been barking when they see me
coming, but this one was friendly.

I've not seen much by way of wildlife, just one deer and lots of snails
and slugs. Some birds, but they fly away so fast you only catch a
glimpse. I have a picture of an absolutely perfect snail, but the signal
isn't strong enough to upload photos. So just imagine: speckled brown
spiral shell, sticky green body with funny antennae, sliming across
stones on the path in a pine forest. Beyond that section I passed a
natural arch of formed from calcium rock, called Pont Saladin, and with
several legends about its history.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/c8f54657c9167b49bb85cfc9a005fd7a/tumblr_inline_o9dw7i61JL1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

The day had been hot, but the evening was perfect. I passed through a
few small towns, Vandoncourt and Abbévillers, enjoying simple walking
past rolling hills and open farmlands. It was paved country roads, a
welcome change from the muddy start of the day. On such peaceful roads,
the mind wanders and one begins to dream of a simple life in the French
countryside. I imagined myself as a merchant from centuries ago,
strolling out of the woods that connected towns and following wherever
the road led. There is no better way to know a place than to walk
through it.

Another hour walk took me down a hillside to a stream, and then down its
banks. I came to a turn in the trail and decided to explore the other
way for a campsite. What I found was more than I ever could've hoped
for: a beautiful old waterwheel and storehouse with a covered arcade to
place my tent under. I was at the Source du la Doubs, the starting point
for the Doubs river which I'll be following on the trail, and it was
perhaps the best wild camp I've ever had.

 ![image](https://66.media.tumblr.com/be901dab2d596317c89978d225521844/tumblr_inline_o9dvhkyLcS1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

I washed my clothes and face in the cold water, set up my tent under the
storehouse's roof, and enjoyed the evening sunset.

 ![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/e960c3fbe930c50711451ab8cd1b36d7/tumblr_inline_o9dvzhDMAN1uncvcw_1280.jpg)
