---
title: A Long, Long, Long Way
date: '2016-07-27T17:15:28-04:00'
tumblr_url: https://gravelshoes.tumblr.com/post/148065082639/a-long-long-long-way
---

July 13—Day 26: Refuge du Plan Mya

Started the day with the best breakfast France has given me: the regular
French petit déjeuner of bread and jam, but the jams were all homemade,
fresh from the farm. Raspberry, apricot (with shreds of the peel),
rhubarb, quince, and pear (the best!). It was hard to stop, they were so
good.

The wet weather was still holding on, though more of a misty fog than a
rain or storm. It wasn't the worst of conditions, anyway. Everyone
packed up and set off, myself and the mountain bikers leaving last. With
the rain ponchos hanging over our backpacks, all of us hikers looked
like a bunch of Quasimodos, marching along solemnly in the wet grass and
mud.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/d716d6edc95ceb9b5597a6fc66417c55/tumblr_inline_oapunpo9By1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

I left the refuge on my own but soon caught up with the various groups,
walking a bit with the older women from dinner and then for a longer
while with a Dutch family who is also met at dinner. Of course, my best
friend on the trail was a soaking wet collie that walked along with me a
for a little ways.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/cf240613d75e5d2351503ec961f97025/tumblr_inline_oapuo0h6N51uncvcw_1280.jpg)

While walking with the Dutch family we missed a turn, hiking downhill on
a road for a little too long. So the way up was a bit longer than it
should've been, a steep climb over conglomerate rock beside a waterfall.
They stopped for a rest and I kept on, knowing that the col was still
more than an hour's climb.

Along the way I caught up with David, the French hiker I'd met back at
the Refuge du Chésery. We made our way slowly up to the Col du Bresson,
the temperature dropping as we gained altitude. It was quite cold by the
time we reached the top, and the wind was suddenly strong across the
pass. I'd wanted to stop for lunch at the col but it was too cold to
stay and you couldn't see anything, so we both walked on, starting the
descent. After hiking down a bit the mist lifted at last, so that
finally we had something of a view.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/b16c2ac61470c543833daeb817f5b6dc/tumblr_inline_oapuohDd8T1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

We made the descent in partial sun, clouds passing over at times and the
mist still hanging around in the mountains. David stopped for a smoke
break, and I continued on my own, now planning to have lunch at Refuge
de la Balme, about an hour ahead. The trail was beautiful, passing
through a valley, beside and then over a river. The sun was brief, and
the weather turned for the worse: starting with rain and wind, then
progressing to sleet and even some snow. My hands were frozen, and I
walked sideways to avoid facing into the wind—at least it wasn't blowing
in my face.

The refuge seemed forever away. When I finally arrived, thinking I'd
have a nice coffee and some warm food, the man working the place advised
me that the weather was only going to get worse: if I wasn't planning to
stay the night, better to get to lower altitudes. So instead of lunch I
had a cereal bar, then warmed my hands for just a minute above the
radiator and walked back out into the weather (which fortunately had
improved a bit, now just a light rain).

The trail continued for a long, long descent into a large valley, and
finally the sun came through in force. To the side of the valley was a
winding, shallow, fast moving river in a rocky bed, reminding me of the
Snake River that I saw on my other hike in Wyoming. The trail leveled
off and left the valley, following a forest track and old trail through
small towns, views across and down valley to other towns. Along the way
I met a group of English hikers and walked with them through Valezan and
past Bellentre, finally stopping for the night at an open shelter beside
the river.

Even here in the valley the temperature was still quite cold, and I
bundled up and made myself some pasta mixed with an onion soup. It was
pretty good, I thought, especially since I hadn't had anything for
lunch.

![](https://66.media.tumblr.com/0406cb7176a65020d2eb624cbf4ebdc6/tumblr_inline_oapupeDxId1uncvcw_1280.jpg)

This was a long day, some 30km (19mi); the climb to Col du Bresson was
harder than I expected and the weather hadn't made things any easier.
But I was happy to have a roof overhead (it was raining again), I was
able to make a short phone call home, and I was enjoying the trek more
than ever.

